# 
# The Computer-Assisted-Structure-Elucidation Kit (CASEkit)
 
Copyright 2017 Christoph Steinbeck

License: MIT, see doc/mit.license

## Introduction

This project hosts various Java classes for teaching and research dealing with spectral data in chemistry and metabolomics.
This project depends on the Chemistry Development Project (CDK), hosted under http://cdk.github.casekit.io/
Please refer to these pages for updated information and the latest version of the CDK. CDK's API documentation is available though our [Github site](http://cdk.github.io/cdk/).

## Download Source code

This assumes that you have git working on your system and you have initialised your local repository. 

Then, downloading casekit is just a matter of

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/michaelwenk/casekit
```

## Compiling

The package HOSECodeBuilder (https://github.com/michaelwenk/HOSECodeBuilder) has to be installed on the local machine. 
It is a dependency in casekit's pom.xml and has to ready to use, e.g. installed in Maven's .m2 folder. <br>
This can be done something like:

    mvn install:install-file -Dfile=PATH/TO/HOSECodeBuilder-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar -DgroupId=org.openscience -DartifactId=HOSECodeBuilder -Dversion=1.0 -Dpackaging=jar

Compiling the library is performed with Apache Maven and requires Java 1.7 or later:

```bash
cd casekit
mvn clean package
```
will create an all-in-one-jar under ./target

## Usage

### Shift Prediction with HOSE codes

The following classes are to demonstrate the prediction of Carbon-13 casekit.nmr spectra with HOSE codes. They only demonstrate the basic working principle and ignore, for example, stereochemistry, which can lead to large errors in, for example, the prediction of shifts for E/Z configurations of double bonds. If you want to know more about the details and a sophisticated system implementing them, please refer to Schutz V, Purtuc V, Felsinger S, Robien W (1997) CSEARCH-STEREO: A new generation of casekit.nmr database systems allowing three-dimensional spectrum prediction. Fresenius Journal of Analytical Chemistry 359:33–41. doi: 10.1007/s002160050531.

#### NMRShiftDBSDFParser

Takes the NMRShiftDB SDF with assigned spectra (download from help section of NMRShiftDB.org) and produces a Tab-separated file with HOSE codes and assigned shift values. This file can then be read by HOSECodePredictor. 

```bash
usage: java -jar casekit.jar casekit.NMRShiftDBSDFParser -i <arg> -o <arg>
       -m <arg> [-v] [-d <arg>]
Generates a table of HOSE codes and assigned shifts from an NMRShiftDB SDF
file from http://nmrshiftdb.nmr.uni-koeln.de/portal/js_pane/P-Help.

 -i,--infile <arg>       filename of NMRShiftDB SDF with spectra
                         (required)
 -o,--outfile <arg>      filename of generated HOSE code table (required)
 -m,--maxspheres <arg>   maximum sphere size up to which to generate HOSE
                         codes (required)
 -v,--verbose            generate messages about progress of operation
 -d,--picdir <arg>       store pictures in given directory
```

#### HOSECodePredictor

Predicts a spectrum (chemical shifts, to be precise) for a given molecule provided as SDF file.  
It needs the TSV file generated by NMRShiftDBSDFParser as input.

```bash
usage: java -jar casekit.jar casekit.HOSECodePredictor -s <arg> -i <arg>
       -d <arg> -m <arg> [-v]
Predict casekit.nmr chemical shifts for a given molecule based on table of HOSE
codes and assigned shifts.

 -s,--hosecodes <arg>    filename of TSV file with HOSE codes (required)
 -i,--infile <arg>       filename of with SDF/MOL file of a structure to
                         be predicted (required)
 -d,--picdir <arg>       store picture of structure with assigned shifts
                         in given directory (required)
 -m,--maxspheres <arg>   maximum sphere size up to which to generate HOSE
                         codes (required)
 -v,--verbose            generate messages about progress of operation
```




